So in the last lecture we defined what we want to do to decide "sizes" attributes.
Let's now code it. So now in the filter
we have all the variables we need.
We have the $width of the image and we have the $layout and we have the $content_width.
So let's start with an if condition that will check for the layout. And if the $layout is "full", we will define
available sizes and this will be a string.
And we'll put all conditions here and then at the end we will return the string, right?
So the full layout now is what we have. So let's write the condition for it.
And as we mentioned as long as the screen width is larger than 862 the image will be 800 pixels. And if the screen width
is less than 862 the image will cover 100% of the screen - some margins and paddings and
borders. So let's write this condition now. "'(max-width: 862px) '.
And here we can use the calc() function because we will need to calculate the 100% of the screen
"-" something, right.
So this something is a padding of 1.25rems on both sides.
So we can do "1.25rem*2 - " the margins of this DIV which is 0.625 on
both sides.
So we can do "0.625rem*2 - " the "2px" for the borders on both sides.
And let's close the bracket for the calc() function. And then if the screen is larger then 862, the image
will be 800px. And 800px is actually the content width,
so let's do this dynamically. Let's append the $content_width and then "px". And this will be it for the full
width layout. So let's see now.
And as you can see we have our conditions here and it should be working fine.
But now let's try to change this image to "Medium" again.
So it will be less than the content width.
And let's fresh.
And as you can see the image tag loaded an 800 pixel image because that's what our conditions will do.
But when the user actually chooses that he wants to use the medium size image he should expect the medium
size image to appear here.
So let's do this other condition. So let's write an if condition about this one.
And if $content_width is less than or equal the width of the image, we will do this.
Otherwise we'll do the other condition that we mentioned in the previous lecture. And this condition
was max-width of the image width
+ 62. Remember that when the width of the screen becomes equals to less than the width of the image +
the margins and paddings on the left and right which we calculated and it was 62. And unfortunately
we can not use calc() here.
So we have to put the value in pixel, in the media query, right?
And then "px" and close, sorry, close the media query. So when the width of the screen is less than that, the image
will take "100vw - "
also these things, right?
And otherwise if the screen width is larger than the image width + 62, we would like to load the original,
the actual size of the image which is the $width. I hope I'm making a sense here.
Let's see now. As you can see we are loading the 300 pixels image. Or actually the conditions is wrong here.
Oh, this is "sizes" not "size"
Sorry.
And I've our condition.
So 300 pixels but if we screen width is less than 362, we will calculate the screen width - the paddings
and margins.
So
the full width of the screen and then the padding the margins and the borders. Let's also make sure that
this is working for other image sizes that are less than 800.
So we have the "Medium Large". It's less than 800 also. And what should change is
the media query.
So now it's 830. And 830 will be the image width + 62. And also the default width will be 786 now
which is the width of the "Medium Large" image.
So great. We still have one condition missing which is if we have a sidebar, right?
So let's change the post to sidebar. And let's refresh.
And here we'll have three conditions.
The first condition is the condition we're having now where the content width will be 738. And the
second condition will be when the screen width reaches a certain number of pixels, the content and the sidebar
will start to resize, right?
So this is another condition. The third condition is when the content will take the full width and
also the sidebar.
This one, right?
So this condition happens when the screen width is 640 or less, right?
And this one will happen when the screen width is 1200 or less.
And then the other condition which is this one will be the default condition.
Right? So let's write
the first two conditions. So let's write an "elseif". And if $layout is "sidebar" we will have to calculate the $sizes
again.
And the first condition next to it is 640 pixels and that's when the content is taking the full width
of the screen.
So in this case how much of the screen width the images will take? It will take the full width of the screen
- the paddings the margins.
So you can actually copy this, this whole calc() and put it here for this condition.
Next one is a bit tricky. And it's "max-width" we mentioned is 1200 and we'll have to do a calc() for this one also.
But let's see what we'll have to put inside this calc(), right?
So in this case the contents will not be taking the full width of the screen.
It will be taking the full width of the screen - the paddings and margins - the sidebar and
also its paddings and margins,
right? So let's start by putting the full width of the screen, 100vw. And let's subtract first the sidebar.
So the sidebar will be, it will span 4 columns and a column is 33.33333
percent of the screen.
So to translate that here, we can subtract
33.33333vw. And then the sidebar
will have these two margins on the right and left and
they are .625.
So let's subtract these *2. And then we have to subtract these paddings and borders and the margins of
this one. The ones we did in the other conditions.
So they were at 1.25rem *2 and 0.625rem *2 and 2px.
So you can subtract these. We can actually do *4 here and remove these. And that will be it for this
condition, the 1200.
The last condition will be the default which will be the content width,
right?
And that's when the screen width is larger than 1200. So $content_width and then append the "px". And let's save.
Let's take a look now.
And we have our conditions here and this should be working fine.
So that's it for the sidebar.
But also make sure that this is not the only condition that you'll have to calculate, the single blog
post.
You'll also have to change this layout.
It will be different if you are in an archive page or a page template maybe and so on.
One final thing I want to mention is let's go back to the full width layout.
Remember the "alignwide" and "alignfull" features that are included in Gutenberg.
For these images what we calculated here will not be exactly accurate because now the image takes more
width than the content width. But in this footer
we don't have any information about the alignment that this image has.
So there is no way in this filter that we can check if this image has an "alignfull" so we can do some
other calculations.
So maybe WordPress will include this in the future.
But for now that's all what we can do.
Also another thing if we had a, let's go to the Customizer. And let's add a logo. So you should change this
to 8888.
So let's add a logo here.
And let's publish. And if we refresh here and inspect the image, you will find that the image will take
the same "sizes" attribute that we did in our filter.
And this might not be what you need.
Might want to create a custom "sizes" attribute just for this logo.
So I'm going to leave this for you.
Try to do it alone and let me know how you did it in the Q&A in this lecture.
And then we can discuss it.
So that's it for this lecture.
I know it's one of these lectures that may not be very straightforward. So let me know if you have any
questions or anything is unclear. And see you in the next section.